In this section we're going to start developing our first rest API and to do that I'm going to create
a new project.
So let's start by creating our project I hope spring initialiser and I'm clicking next.
And to name the project I'm going to say rest the API and let's just rename the artifact to and of course
our description.
All right.
And now from our dependencies Well we're going to use as the web artifact which is also going to bring
us the arrest functionality along with the Tom-Kat and from the sequel tab.
I'm again going to select JPA and H.
All right.
That's all we need for a rest.
API application.
And in this application we're of course going to use a repository and get and say our data from there
so I'll click next and I'm ready to create my project so I'll click Finish.
Our application is ready.
And let's check out record structure again.
Here we go.
We have everything ready to create our application in this application what we're going to do is we're
going to have a repository just as we did in the previous sections and what that repository we're going
to have a rest API on top of it with that risk API.
We're going to be able to get those put and delete something from our repository with the help of rest
request mappings.
So I'll start by creating our entity.
So for that I'm going to have a model package in that model package.
I'm going to have a product class and within the product class I'm going to provide a typical wearables
that we use within our Bruja sections.
So I'll say I need an ID I need of course a name.
I'm going to have a description
I'm going to have a type
and we need a category.
And that's basically all we need for a simple product.
So let's create our getters and setters
right.
And let's say we want this ID field as the actual ID in our database.
So I'm going to use the generated wellie and I'll say strategy is going to be audio and the generator
is going to be system Dasch you ID for the actual generator.
I'm going to say General generator and I'm going to name it as system Desch you ID and for the strategy
the actual strategy I'm going to say you D2 The other thing we need.
But our product class we need to set it as an entity so I'll say that too.
And I'm going to move t our package and create a new package for our repository
within our repository we're going to have a product repository just as we did before.
So this is going to be an interface now created and right now
in our repository of course is going to extend from the JPA repository with a peer repository.
We're going to be interacting with our product.
And of course for the identifier we're going to use string and to name it as an actual repository.
I'm going to use the repository interface method.
All right we have our repository set up.
So let's switch back to our packages and start writing down our controller to do that.
I'm going to create a controller package
in this package I'm going to have a product controller and build up on our rest API methods.
So I'll create a new class and I'll say it's going to be named as product controller.
Right.
And this controller what we're going to do is we're going to use some annotations and we provide the
get put post and delete methods for our products so we can interact with those before we start.
What we're going to do is we're going to annotate our controller as an actual controller.
So let's do that now to do that.
I'm going to use rest controller as we have here.
Rest control or annotation is going to provide as the rest interface functionality so that we can provide
the HTP methods with this product's controller class our products controller will have an entry point
for our API and to get that an entry point we're going to use the request mapping on top of the class.
Right.
All of the rest controller and rotation.
Let's do that now.
We'll say request mapping and request mapping.
We're going to provide the path and that path is going to be defined by the arrest API guidelines.
And as the guideline says you have to be descriptive with your path.
And since this is an API I'm going to start by API
and after that you have to be defining the resource that you're going to control with this controller.
That's what the API guideline says.
So in this group troller we're controlling and manipulating the products the product entities.
So our resource is a product or list of products you name it.
So in our risk control or our next path is going to be product so that we can align with the rest API
guidelines.
So let's say we want products to be set as the next path.
All right.
No we can provide our methods to our best API.
I'll start by the basic method of HTP and that one is HTP get.
So I'm going to say public.
And with this get there that I'm going to be returning a product object I'm going to look for a product
with its ID and then I've funded from the repository then I'll simply return it.
So I'll say I'm going to return a product and the method name is going to be kept product
OK.
So let's make this method a risk API and point methods to do that.
I'm again going to say request mapping and the path for this method is going to be build on top of this
API slash product slash and after that slash whatever we provide is going to be the end point.
So our End Point is going to be named as ID.
So the type of the method that we're going to use is going to be request method that get and for our
requests we said we wanted to get a wearable and this is the way that you get a wearable from a wrist
and point.
So this really Bill is going to be made use by the path variable.
So this is going to be a path variable.
In our End Point.
So the final product of this End Point is going to be like this.
We will how API slash products and Id some ID that you provide.
This is going to be the final endpoint that we're going to use to make requests.
All right.
Get rid of that.
And as I've said to make use of this idea this idea is going to be a path variable.
And we have to get that path variable as you can see we have a annotation as the path variable our path
variable is going to be named as ID.
As we said here so of course we're going to wrap it around double coats
and our idea is going to be a string just as we provided here so that we can use this ID field in our
method so that we can query our repository against it.
In the remaining part of our method we're going to go to our Abaza Tori and query the entity with this
ID.
So to do that I'm going to wire our repository.
So let's do that now.
Private product repository in product repository again.
So I'll provide a set or injection for that.
I'll say setter and for the central method I'm going to use the product repository naming and of course
I'm going to wire it our product repository is ready.
So router repository we can go to our database and query with this ID so I can simply say I can return
our product repository and find one.
All right find one method is what I need.
It gets an ID and returns the ends of the right back to you.
So I'll provide the ID path variable to our method so that I can go to our database and bring it back
to me.
All right but before we actually test out this method we have to put an entity put a data into our database.
So I'll go to our API application main class and have a command line runner to do that.
I'm going to implement the command line run interface and with that interface I of course need to implement
the run method.
In the run method I'm going to go to our repository and say a new product but of course to do that I
have to order wire our repository.
So I'll say product repository and I'm going to have a setter injection for that.
In the center injection I'm going to rename to product repository and provide the annotation.
All right so in this method I'm going to have a new product
and I'll name it as the test product
this product is going to be named as simple product.
And of course I'm going to describe it as this is a test product
and test product is going to get a type.
That type is going to be a custom type
and for that category I'm going to say special.
All right.
And with the help of our product repository I'm going to save this and at the so I'll provide the test
product to our repository and have it saved into our database.
So to actually make use of a database.
Let's go back to our application to our properties and provide the variables to our database.
Spring got datasource dark your owl is going to be shady see at age 2 and file and then I'm going to
provide the name of our data store.
So it's going to be products and spring that
datasource.
Cried her class name is going to be H-2 and for our data source for our database I'm going to provide
the user name as a say and I'm going to provide no passwords and KCET sequel in our command line.
I'm going to say show sequel to true and for our H-2 council I'm going to say it's going to be enabled.
And for the path over a Also I'm going to simply say it's going to be H-2 All right.
We have everything ready to test out our rest and point our rest and end point.
So let's test this out.
To do that I'm going to start up our application
here we go.
We have started our application and our table has created after the creation of our table and to start
above our Tomcat server we have inserted a data to our data store and was done with the run method of
the command line runner.
All right let's take out the day that we have in the database to do that.
I'm going to start up the edge to cancel.
So I'll start Firefox and go to our page to cancel local Howze ADHD slash age.
All right.
Let's test our connection and connect do our database in our database we how our product table let's
select the data from that and we how our data created in our database with this ID.
All right.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to query our data with this ID field so to do that of course
we can just use a simple browser but for the purpose of our next endpoints the posts put and delete.
We're going to use a rest client to actually test out errors and point we're going to need a full fledged
API tester so that we can use in our future controllers future polls.
And police methods to do that.
I'm going to go to search and say resk client for Firefox and see what's going on with how he rest client
debugger services we can use that ad and I'm going to click it and I'll add it to Firefox.
Let's install it and let's just drop the Firefox
here we go.
We have the risk aligned install to see teres client.
You should notice that you have a new application icon appearing here.
Let's click on that and we have the rest combined with the stress client as you can see.
You can use it to make a get request post request put delete options had crays and connect requests
you provide your out.
And if you need to you provide the body.
All right so ORUs end point was starting as API slash products and then the ID field so that's provided
as we have it here.
I'm going to copy our Roop path and I'll say localhost
ADHD and slash of course.
I can just paste it and then I'm going to provide the ID that we need the ID as in our database.
So I'll click the double click the ID field in our database and copy it in a rest client.
I'm going to paste it and we how our requests ready.
So let's break down our requests.
Again we have our server we have our port and then we have the root of our API which is API I-Slash
products and right after that we have providing the id the actual ID that we're looking for.
So let's run our requests and see what's going on
in response.
You can see that we don't have any headers because we didn't return any headers to our request but in
the response from field response body as we clicked we have our product as you can see here as a Jason
string.
And if we go to the next tab as the highlight and not are all we can see a beautiful white version of
our entity.
And as you can see we have all the fees that we need.
We have the ID we have name as simple product.
We have a description type and category.
And as you know there's there's no response code indicators or anything else within our response.
That's basically because we didn't say you know you're all HTP.
So let's put HTP in our request you're out and see what's going on.
So I'll go to my URL and I'll say ETP slash slash.
And the same request we had before so I'll send this request now.
And we were receiving the same product same object in our database.
But this time if we go to our response headers we have 200.
And the status code which is OK and the content type is application SLAs Jaison as a default for spring.
All right.
We have made our first HTP request.
Our first control or end point.
Let's switch back to our ID and check out our request
in our request.
We simply said that we wanted to.
On top of our route that of request mapping which was API slash products.
And after the last slash we wanted to provide an idea so that we can request our entities and request
method that we wanted.
It was the get method and of course this ID field as indicating a path where you were with the curly
braces around at to bring that races to our method.
We used tath variable as the annotation.
And of course the name of the property that we're going to use as the path we are able is ID and to
actually get that ID in our methhead.
We said it's a type of string and ID.
And after that within our method which our controller we set that we wanted to find that entity from
our repository.
And after finding it as the find one method returns as a product object as you can see here we simply
returned it and the result is just as we have here.
We found our product as you know does writing down controllers well-spring and resk controllers is very
easy to implement in our next three deals.
We're going to dive into the other parts of rest and of course we're going to use other methods of TTP.